# nuxpress: Minimalist Markdown Blogging

Code that powers [http://hire.jonasgalvez.com.br](http://hire.jonasgalvez.com.br).

Nuxt + Markdown + a fancy custom loader = **nuxpress**.

## What it does

- Takes **.entry** files from the **entries/** directory and uses the first and 
second paragraphs for publishing date and summary respectively, and following 
Markdown text to create a **chronological** entry. A permalink is automatically 
created and it gets printed (in descending order) in the index page.

- Takes **.md** files from the **pages/** directory and makes them available
at a path corresponding to the filename, so `pages/page.md` becomes `/page`.

## How it does it

<table>
<tr>
<td><b>nuxt.config.js</b></td>
<td>Supercharged with functions that load <code>.entry</code> files from a 
<code>entries/</code> directory. Generates RSS and Atom feeds using
<code>.template</code> files under <code>feeds/</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>plugins/nuxpress.js</b></td>
<td>Uses an index <code>entries.json</code> file (generated by 
<code>nuxt.config.js</code>) to inject <code>$entries</code> and 
<code>$pages</code> (which contain paths) and <code>$permalinks</code> (which
contains entry metadata) in Nuxt's <code>app</code>.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>middleware/nuxpress.js</b></td>
<td>Infers the request URI and uses the provided <code>$entries</code> and 
<code>$pages</code> to read and process files, before passing them down as
<code>$entry</code> or <code>$page</code> to Vue templates.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>pages/index.vue</b></td>
<td><code>asyncData()</code> makes <code>entries</code> available to 
the template. Entries are in listed in descending order.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>pages/entry.vue</b></td>
<td><code>asyncData()</code> makes <code>entry</code> available to 
the template, previously provided by the <code>nuxpress</code> middleware.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>pages/page.vue</b></td>
<td><code>asyncData()</code> makes <code>page</code> available to 
the template, previously provided by the <code>nuxpress</code> middleware.</td>
</tr>
</table>

If the loader encounters a directory under `entries`, it checks inside for an
`.entry` file and copies all other files to `/static/entries/`, so you can 
reference any assets in your `.entry` files.

The **first** and **second** _paragraphs_ of an `.entry` file are reserved
for the **publishing date** and **summary** respectively. The **publishing 
date** can be anything `Date.parse()` can handle. Both are followed by the
entry's Markdown block, which starts with `#` indicating the title (h1).

## Philosophy

**nuxpress** is the result of me reading through [VuePress][1]'s source code for
a week. It doesn't have blogging support yet, so I set out to try and cook 
something up with it. I learned a lot reading through Evan's code, but my 
feeling is that VuePress goes to great lengths to replicate [Nuxt][2]'s 
functionality for automatically setting up and launching a Vue app.

[1]: https://vuepress.vuejs.org/
[2]: http://nuxtjs.org/

While I see the value of having `vuepress` as a standalone CLI tool and 
everything it does that Nuxt doesn't (e.g., all SEO-friendly publishing tweaks), 
for me really its **golden feature** is streamlining Markdown in Vue files.

Now, I **really like** Nuxt's code organization standards. Having a blog as
a Nuxt app makes sense, as it would give me total freedom for customization.
VuePress's `eject` command gives you a similar functionality, but you miss
the multitude of plugins and Nuxt-oriented solutions out there.

So instead of trying to add blogging support to VuePress, I decided to add 
Markdown blogging support to a Nuxt app with the minimum amount of code 
and conventions I could possibly manage.

## Files that need customization

The `domain` constant in `nuxt.config.js`, then:

<table>
<tr>
<td><b>pages/*</b></td>
<td>Where <code>index.vue</code>, <code>entry.vue</code> and 
<code>archive.vue</code> live. As long as you understand and preserve the logic,
layout and CSS can be modified as you like.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>feeds/*</b></td>
<td>Lodash templates for RSS and Atom feeds.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>layouts/default.vue</b></td>
<td>Nuxt's default layout, set up to use <code>components/LeftColumn.vue</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>components/LeftColumn.vue</b></td>
<td>The left column in the default two-column layout. This can be removed 
altogether and replaced by whatever layout structure you're using.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>head.js</b></td>
<td>Base HTML head definitions used by <code>pages/*</code>.</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Improved Markdown links

I love Markdown, but the fact that you need to use a unique identifier for 
link references makes things to hard to maintain.

Here's an example:

```
To use it you need to [write a locustfile][1], which is just a Python file with
at least one [Locust subclass][2]. Each Locust object specifies a list of tasks
to be performed during the test, represented by a [`TaskSet`][3] class.

[1]: http://docs.locust.io/en/latest/writing-a-locustfile.html
[2]: http://docs.locust.io/en/latest/api.html#locust-class
[3]: http://docs.locust.io/en/latest/api.html#taskset-class
```

If you remove the second link, you get an aesthetically unpleasing unordered 
list. Plus you have to keep track of references, even if you use slugs as link 
identifiers instead of numbers. In `nuxpress`, all you have to do is:

```
To use it you need to [write a locustfile][], which is just a Python file with
at least one [Locust subclass][]. Each Locust object specifies a list of tasks
to be performed during the test, represented by a [`TaskSet`][] class.

[]: http://docs.locust.io/en/latest/writing-a-locustfile.html
[]: http://docs.locust.io/en/latest/api.html#locust-class
[]: http://docs.locust.io/en/latest/api.html#taskset-class
```

And it will automatically link ordered references. Use this if you're ok with
not ever having two references to the same link in paragraphs, and want a 
streamlined way of adding and editing them. Otherwise, regular Markdown link
references will work as expected.

## Running

```sh
npm install
npm run dev # development mode
npm start # nuxt server
```

## Contributing

**nuxpress** is missing quite a few features, such as:

- Progressive web app enhancements
- Syntax highlighting for code blocks
- A decent archiving system (`$archive` and `pages/archive.vue` is a hack)

Plus the entry loading code can probably be improved to make better use of
async I/O. My first attempts were giving me a headache so its current version
processes everything linearly. PRs are most definitely welcome.

## License

MIT

Although this repo is a boilerplate, all sample `entries/` and Vue layouts are 
from my live blog. Feel free to reuse the layout, **but replace `entries/` with
your own**.